README.md, before:

# portsmf README.md
- Roger B. Dannenberg, 14 Jun 2008

Portsmf is "Port Standard MIDI File", a cross-platform, C++ library
for reading and writing Standard MIDI Files.

License information: free and open source, see license.txt for details

Features:

- input and output of Standard MIDI Files
- data structures, classes, etc. for representing music data in memory
    - sequence structure consisting of multiple tracks
    - track structure consisting of multiple events
    - events contain note and control data
    - extensible attribute-value property lists
    - tempo track and time signature representation
- input and output of a text-based representation: Allegro files
- extensive editing operations on sequences and tracks
- conversion to/from binary buffers for archiving, undo/redo, etc.

Portsmf is a relatively small number of about 9 files, so there is
currently no support for building/maintaining Portsmf as a separate
library. (Contributions are welcome.) For now, it is suggested that
you simply compile these files along with your application sources.

There is a test program in portsmf_test and makefiles to build it as
an example.

You might want to browse through portsmf_test/allegro_test.cpp 
for examples that use and exercise most of the portsmf functions.

Commit message:

Updated for 64-bit machines. Note this version is now slightly different from Audacity's version which solved 64-bit differently, and in particular does not support 64-bit integer parameters. CMakeLists are added, but are bare-bones and do not support building dynamic libraries or installing them. Changes are welcome. portsmf_test was reviewed and all 33 tests were checked. runtest.sh was added to run the tests and check the results. Testing depends on new files added to midi directory. Most changes are from previous use of "long", which was pretty universally a 32-bit int, to "int", which is assumed to be either 32- or 64-bit. Where size matters (see what I did there?), either int32 or int64 is used to be precise.

README.md, after:

# portsmf README.md
- Roger B. Dannenberg, 14 Jun 2008, updated 2023 (!)

Portsmf is "Port Standard MIDI File", a cross-platform, C++ library
for reading and writing Standard MIDI Files.

License information: free and open source, see license.txt for details

Features:

- input and output of Standard MIDI Files
- data structures, classes, etc. for representing music data in memory
    - sequence structure consisting of multiple tracks
    - track structure consisting of multiple events
    - events contain note and control data
    - extensible attribute-value property lists
    - tempo track and time signature representation
- input and output of a text-based representation: Allegro files
- extensive editing operations on sequences and tracks
- conversion to/from binary buffers for archiving, undo/redo, etc.

Portsmf is a relatively small number of about 9 files, so there is
currently no support for building/maintaining Portsmf as a separate
library. (Contributions are welcome.) For now, it is suggested that
you simply compile these files along with your application sources.

There is a test program in portsmf_test and CMakeLists.txt files
to build it as an example.

You might want to browse through portsmf_test/allegro_test.cpp 
for examples that use and exercise most of the portsmf functions.

Portsmf was created for "note tracks" in Audacity. This version is
updated to 64-bits differently than the Audacity update, so we're
out-of-sync, and the binary buffer format is different. I followed
my own documentation about keeping doubles aligned on 8-byte
boundaries and I keep integer-type parameters as 64-bit integers
now, even on 32-bit machines.
